.TH IOZONE 1
.SH NAME
Iozone \- Filesystem Benchmark
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Iozone
.nh
[\fB\-a|\-A\fP]
[\fB\-s\fP \fIfilesize_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-r\fP \fIrecord_size_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-f\fP \fI[path]filename\fP]
[\fB\-i\fP \fItest\fP]
[\fB\-E\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP]
[\fB\-m\fP]
[\fB\-M\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIchildren\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP]
[\fB\-o\fP]
[\fB\-l\fP \fImin_number_procs\fP]
[\fB\-u\fP \fImax_number_procs\fP]
[\fB\-v\fP]
[\fB\-R\fP]
[\fB\-x\fP]
[\fB\-d\fP \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\fB\-F\fP \fIpath1 path2...\fP]
[\fB\-V\fP \fIpattern \fP]
[\fB\-j\fP \fIstride\fP]
[\fB\-T\fP]
[\fB\-C\fP]
[\fB\-B\fP]
[\fB\-D\fP]
[\fB\-G\fP]
[\fB\-I\fP]
[\fB\-H\fP \fIdepth\fP]
[\fB\-k\fP \fIdepth\fP]
[\fB\-U\fP \fImount_point\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP \fIcache_size\fP]
[\fB\-O\fP]
[\fB\-L\fP \fIline_size\fP]
[\fB\-K\fP]
[\fB\-N\fP]
[\fB\-Q\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP \fIstart_cpu\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP]
[\fB\-e\fP]
[\fB\-b\fP \fIExcel.xls\fP]
[\fB\-J\fP \fImilliseconds\fP]
[\fB\-X\fP \fI[path]filename\fP]
[\fB\-Y\fP \fI[path]filename\fP]
[\fB\-w\fP]
[\fB\-W\fP]
[\fB\-z\fP]
[\fB\-Z\fP]
[\fB\-n\fP \fImin_filesize_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-g\fP \fImax_filesize_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-y\fP \fImin_recordsize_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-q\fP \fImax_recordsize_Kb\fP]
[\fB\-+d\fP]
[\fB\-+u\fP]
[\fB\-+m\fP \fIclient_filename\fP]
[\fB\-+n\fP]
[\fB\-+N\fP]
[\fB\-+p\fP \fIpercent_read\fP]
[\fB\-+r\fP]
[\fB\-+t\fP]
[\fB\-+l\fP]
[\fB\-+L\fP]
[\fB\-+D\fP]
[\fB\-+A\fP \fImadvise_selector\fP]
[\fB\-+h\fP \fIhostname\fP]
[\fB\-+T\fP]
[\fB\-+w\fP \fIPercent de-dupable.\fP]

.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Iozone
is a filesystem benchmark tool. The benchmark generates and measures
a variety of file operations. 
.B Iozone
has been ported to many machines and runs under many operating systems. 
This document will cover the many different types of operations that are 
tested as well as coverage of all of the command line options.
.PP
.B Iozone
is useful for determining a broad filesystem analysis of a vendor's
computer platform. The benchmark tests file I/O performance for the
following operations.
.PP
          Read, write, re-read, re-write, read backwards, read strided,
fread, fwrite, random read/write, pread/pwrite variants
.PP
While computers are typically purchased with an application in mind it is
also likely that over time the application mix will change. Many vendors
have enhanced their operating systems to perform well for some frequently
used applications. Although this accelerates the I/O for those few
applications it is also likely that the system may not perform well for
other applications that were not targeted by the operating system. An
example of this type of enhancement is: Database. Many operating systems
have tested and tuned the filesystem so it works well with databases. While
the database users are happy, the other users may not be so happy as the
entire system may be giving all of the system resources to the database
users at the expense of all other users. As time rolls on the system
administrator may decide that a few more office automation tasks could be
shifted to this machine. The load may now shift from a random reader
application (database) to a sequential reader. The users may discover that
the machine is very slow when running this new application and become
dissatisfied with the decision to purchase this platform. By using 
.B Iozone
to get a broad filesystem performance coverage the buyer is much more likely to
see any hot or cold spots and pick a platform and operating system that is
more well balanced.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a
Used to select full automatic mode. Produces output that covers all tested
file operations for record sizes of 4k to 16M for file sizes of 64k to 512M.
.TP
.BI \-A
This version of automatic mode provides more coverage but consumes a bunch
of time.
The 
.BI \-a 
option will automatically stop using transfer sizes less than 64k
once the file size is 32M or larger. This saves time. The
.BI \-A 
option tells 
.B Iozone
that you are willing to wait and want dense coverage for small transfers 
even when the file size is very large.
.BI NOTE:
This option is deprecated in
.BI Iozone
version 3.61.  Use
.BI \-az\ \-i\ 0\ \-i\ 1
instead.
.TP
.BI \-b\ filename
Used to specify a filename that will be used for output
of an Excel compatible file that contains the results.
.TP
.BI \-B
Use mmap() files. This causes all of the temporary files being measured to
be created and accessed with the mmap() interface. Some applications prefer 
to treat files as arrays of memory. These applications mmap() the file 
and then just access the array with loads and stores to perform file I/O.
.TP
.BI \-c
Include close() in the timing calculations. This is useful only if you
suspect that close() is broken in the operating system currently under test. 
It can be useful for NFS Version 3 testing as well to help identify if 
the nfs3_commit is working well.
.TP
.BI \-C
Show bytes transferred by each child in throughput testing. Useful if your
operating system has any starvation problems in file I/O or in process 
management.
.TP
.BI \-d\ #
Microsecond delay out of barrier. During the throughput tests all threads or
processes are forced to a barrier before beginning the test. Normally, 
all of the threads or processes are released at the same moment. This 
option allows one to delay a specified time in microseconds between 
releasing each of the processes or threads.
.TP
.BI \-D
Use msync(MS_ASYNC) on mmap files. This tells the operating system that all
the data in the mmap space needs to be written to disk asynchronously.
.TP
.BI \-e
Include flush (fsync,fflush) in the timing calculations
.TP
.BI \-E
Used to select the extension tests. Only available on some platforms. Uses
pread interfaces.
.TP
.BI \-f\ filename
Used to specify the filename for the temporary file under test. This is
useful when the unmount option is used. When testing with unmount between
tests it is necessary for the temporary file under test to be in a 
directory that can be unmounted. It is not possible to unmount the 
current working directory as the process 
.B Iozone
is running in this directory.
.TP
.BI \-F\ filename\ filename\ filename\ ?
Specify each of the temporary file names to be used in the throughput
testing. The number of names should be equal to the number of processes or 
threads that are specified.
.TP
.BI \-g\ #
Set maximum file size (in Kbytes) for auto mode. One may also specify
.BI \-g\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or
.BI \-g\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-g\ #g
(size in Gbytes). See
.BI \-n
for minimum file size.
.TP
.BI \-G
Use msync(MS_SYNC) on mmap files. This tells the operating system that all
the data in the mmap space needs to be written to disk synchronously.
.TP
.BI \-h
Displays help screen.
.TP
.BI \-H\ #
Use POSIX async I/O with\ # async operations. 
.B Iozone
will use POSIX async I/O with a bcopy from the async buffers back into the 
applications buffer. Some versions of MSC NASTRAN perform I/O this way. 
This technique is used by applications so that the async I/O may be performed 
in a library and requires no changes to the applications internal model.
.TP
.BI \-i\ #
Used to specify which tests to run. (0=write/rewrite, 1=read/re-read,
2=random-read/write, 3=Read-backwards, 4=Re-write-record,
5=stride-read, 6=fwrite/re-fwrite, 7=fread/Re-fread,
8=mixed workload, 9=pwrite/Re-pwrite, 10=pread/Re-pread, 11=pwritev/Re-pwritev,
12=preadv/Re-preadv). 
One will always need to specify 0 so that any of the following tests will
have a file to measure.
.BI -i\ #\ -i\ #\ -i\ #
is also supported so that one may select more than one test.
.TP
.BI \-I
Use DIRECT IO if possible for all file operations. Tells the filesystem that
all operations to the file are to bypass the buffer cache and go directly to 
disk. (not available on all platforms)
.TP
.BI \-j\ #
Set stride of file accesses to (# * record size). The stride read test will
read records at this stride.
.TP
.BI \-J\ #
Millisecond delay before each I/O operation. This simulates the
cpu compute cycle of an application that precedes an I/O operation.
One may also use
.BI \-X
or
.BI \-Y
to control the compute cycle on a per I/O operation basis.
.TP
.BI \-k\ #
Use POSIX async I/O (no bcopy) with\ # async operations. 
.B Iozone
will use POSIX async I/O and will not perform any extra bcopys. The buffers 
used by 
.B Iozone 
will be handed to the async I/O system call directly.
.TP
.BI \-K
Inject some random accesses in the testing. 
.TP
.BI \-l\ #
Set the lower limit on number of processes to run. When running throughput
tests this option allows the user to specify the least number of processes 
or threads to start. This option should be used in conjunction with 
the
.BI \-u
option.
.TP
.BI \-L\ #
Set processor cache line size to value (in bytes). Tells 
.B Iozone 
the processor cache line size.  This is used internally to help speed up 
the test.
.TP
.BI \-m
Tells 
.B Iozone
to use multiple buffers internally. Some applications read into a single
buffer over and over. Others have an array of buffers. This option allows
both types of applications to be simulated. 
.B Iozone\'s 
default behavior is to re-use internal buffers. This option allows one 
to override the default and to use multiple internal buffers.
.TP
.BI \-M
\.B
Iozone
will call uname() and will put the string in the output file.
.TP
.BI \-n\ #
Set minimum file size (in Kbytes) for auto mode. One may also specify
.BI \-n\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or
.BI \-n\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-n\ #g
(size in Gbytes). See
.BI \-g
for maximum file size.
.TP
.BI \-N
Report results in microseconds per operation.
.TP
.BI \-o
Writes are synchronously written to disk. (O_SYNC). 
.B Iozone
will open the files with the O_SYNC flag. This forces all writes to the 
file to go completely to disk before returning to the benchmark.
.TP
.BI \-O
Give results in operations per second.
.TP
.BI \-p
This purges the processor cache before each file operation. 
.B Iozone
will allocate another internal buffer that is aligned to the same 
processor cache boundary and is of a size that matches the processor cache. 
It will zero fill this alternate buffer before beginning each test.
This will purge the processor cache and allow one to see the memory
subsystem without the acceleration due to the processor cache.
.TP
.BI \-P\ #
Bind processes/threads to processors, starting with this cpu\ #. Only
available on some platforms. The first sub process or thread will begin 
on the specified processor. Future processes or threads will be placed on
the next processor. Once the total number of cpus is exceeded then
future processes or threads will be placed in a round robin
fashion.
.TP
.BI \-q\ #
Set maximum record size (in Kbytes) for auto mode. One may also specify
.BI \-q\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or
.BI \-q\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-q\ #g
(size in Gbytes). See
.BI \-y
for minimum record size.
.TP
.BI \-Q
Create offset/latency files. 
.B Iozone
will create latency versus offset data files that can be imported with a 
graphics package and plotted. This is useful for finding if certain offsets
have very high latencies. Such as the point where UFS will allocate its
first indirect block.  One can see from the data the impacts of the extent 
allocations for extent based filesystems with this option.
.TP
.BI \-r\ #
Used to specify the record size, in Kbytes, to test. One may also specify
.BI \-r\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or
.BI \-r\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-r\ #g
(size in Gbytes).
.TP
.BI \-R
Generate Excel report. 
.B Iozone
will generate an Excel compatible report to standard out. This
file may be imported with Microsoft Excel (space delimited) and used to
create a graph of the filesystem performance. Note: The 3D graphs are 
column oriented. You will need to select this when graphing as the 
default in Excel is row oriented data.
.TP
.BI \-s\ #
Used to specify the size, in Kbytes, of the file to test. One may also
specify
.BI \-s\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or 
.BI \-s\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-s\ #g
(size in Gbytes).
.TP
.BI \-S\ #
Set processor cache size to value (in Kbytes). This tells 
.B Iozone
the size of the processor cache.  It is used internally for buffer alignment 
and for the purge functionality.
.TP
.BI \-t\ #
Run 
.B Iozone
in a throughput mode. This option allows the user to specify how
many threads or processes to have active during the measurement.
.TP
.BI \-T
Use POSIX pthreads for throughput tests. Available on platforms that have
POSIX threads.
.TP
.BI \-u\ #
Set the upper limit on number of processes to run. When running throughput
tests this option allows the user to specify the greatest number of 
processes or threads to start. This option should be used in conjunction 
with the
.BI \-l
option.
.TP
.BI \-U\ mountpoint
Mount point to unmount and remount between tests. 
.B Iozone
will unmount and remount this
mount point before beginning each test. This guarantees that the buffer
cache does not contain any of the file under test.
.TP
.BI \-v 
Display the version of 
.B Iozone.
.TP
.BI \-V\ #
Specify a pattern that is to be written to the temporary file and validated
for accuracy in each of the read tests.
.TP
.BI \-w
Do not unlink temporary files when finished using them.
.TP
.BI \-W
Lock file when reading or writing.
.TP
.BI \-x
Turn off stone-walling. Stonewalling is a technique used internally to
.B Iozone.
It is used during the throughput tests. The code starts all threads or 
processes and then stops them on a barrier.  Once they are all ready to 
start then they are all released at the same time. The moment that
any of the threads or processes finish their work then the entire test is
terminated and throughput is calculated on the total I/O that was 
completed up to this point. This ensures that the entire measurement was 
taken while all of the processes or threads were running in parallel. 
This flag allows one to turn off the stonewalling and see what happens.
.TP
.BI \-X\ filename
Used to specify a filename that will be used for the 
write telemetry information. The file contains lines
with offset, size, delay_in_milliseconds. Each of 
these lines are used to perform an I/O operation. 
This is used when an application's specific I/O operations
are known, and one wishes to benchmark the system 
with this specific application file behavior.
.TP
.BI \-y\ #
Set minimum record size (in Kbytes) for auto mode. One may also specify
.BI \-y\ #k 
(size in Kbytes) or
.BI \-y\ #m 
(size in Mbytes) or
.BI \-y\ #g
(size in Gbytes). See
.BI \-q
for maximum record size.
.TP
.BI \-Y\ filename
Used to specify a filename that will be used for the 
read telemetry information. The file contains lines
with offset, size, delay_in_milliseconds. Each of 
these lines are used to perform an I/O operation. 
This is used when an application's specific I/O operations
are known, and one wishes to benchmark the system 
with this specific application file behavior.
.TP
.BI \-z
Used in conjunction with
.BI \-a
to test all possible record sizes. Normally
.BI Iozone
omits testing of small record sizes for very large files
when used in full automatic mode. This option forces
.BI Iozone
to include the small record sizes in the automatic tests also.
.TP
.BI \-Z
Enable mixing of mmap I/O and file I/O.
.TP
.BI \-+m\ filename
Used to specify a filename that will be used to specify
the clients in a distributed measurement. The file
contains one line for each client. The fields are 
space delimited. Field 1 is the client name. Field 2
is the working directory, on the client, where Iozone
will run. Field 3 is the path to the executable Iozone
on the client.
.TP
.BI \-+n
No retests selected. Used to prevent retests from running.
.TP
.BI \-+N
No truncating or deleting of previous test file before the sequential write test. Useful only after -w is used in previous command to leave the test file in place for reuse.  This flag is of limited use, when a single retest is not enough, or to easily control when sequential write retests occur without file truncation or deletion.
.TP
.BI \-+u
Used to enable CPU statistics collection.
.TP
.BI \-+d 
Diagnostic mode to troubleshoot a broken file I/O subsystem.
.TP
.BI \-+p\  percentage_reads
Used to set the percentage of threads/processes that will perform read
testing in the mixed workload test case.
.TP
.BI \-+r
Enable O_RSYNC | O_SYNC on all testing. 
.TP
.BI \-+l
Enable byte range locking.
.TP
.BI \-+L
Enable byte range locking & shared file mode.
.TP
.BI \-+D
Enable O_DSYNC on all testing. 
.TP
.BI \-+t
Enable network performance test. Use with -+m
.TP
.BI \-+A #
Enable madvise behavior. 0 = normal, 1=random, 2=sequential, 3=dontneed, 4=willneed
.TP
.BI \-+B
Enable sequential mixed workload testing.
.TP
.BI \-+T
Enable time stamps logging.
.TP
.BI \-+h
Manually set hostname.
.TP
.BI \-+w #
Percentage of data to be de-dupable between files.

.SH AUTHOR
Original Author: William D. Norcott. wnorcott@us.oracle.com

Features & extensions: Don Capps capps@iozone.org
